network_security/0x04_nmap_live_hosts_discovery/README.md, before:

You're right - let's build on the existing README.md to create a comprehensive document that covers both scanning techniques. I'll expand the previous README to include both ARP and ICMP Echo scanning methods:

# Host Discovery with Nmap

This project contains bash scripts that demonstrate different techniques for discovering live hosts on a network using Nmap. We implement two fundamental network scanning approaches: ARP scanning and ICMP Echo scanning. Each method operates at different layers of the OSI model and has its own advantages and characteristics.

## Script Overview

### 1. ARP Scanning (0-arp_scan.sh)
```bash
#!/bin/bash
sudo nmap -sn -PR $1
```

The ARP scanning script uses these flags:
- `-sn`: Disables port scanning, focusing only on host discovery
- `-PR`: Specifies ARP scan mode, sending ARP requests to discover hosts
- `$1`: Represents the subnet argument provided when running the script

### 2. ICMP Echo Scanning (1-icmp_echo_scan.sh)
```bash
#!/bin/bash
sudo nmap -sn -PE $1
```

The ICMP Echo scanning script uses these flags:
- `-sn`: Disables port scanning, focusing only on host discovery
- `-PE`: Enables ICMP Echo scanning mode
- `$1`: Represents the subnet argument provided when running the script

## Understanding the Scanning Methods

### ARP Scanning
ARP scanning operates at Layer 2 (Data Link Layer) of the OSI model. When the script runs, it sends ARP requests to all potential hosts in the specified subnet. This method:
- Is very efficient for local network scanning
- Can reveal MAC addresses of responding hosts (but only within the same subnet)
- Has minimal network overhead
- Is limited to local network segments

Example output:
```
Starting Nmap 7.93 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2023-05-22 05:02 CDT
Nmap scan report for 192.168.65.1
Host is up (0.00064s latency).
MAC Address: C6:91:0C:4B:4E:64 (Unknown)
Nmap scan report for 192.168.65.2
Host is up.
Nmap done: 256 IP addresses (2 hosts up) scanned in 2.03 seconds
```

### ICMP Echo Scanning
ICMP Echo scanning operates at Layer 3 (Network Layer) of the OSI model. This method:
- Works across network segments
- Is similar to the traditional `ping` command but more efficient
- Can be blocked by firewalls or host configurations
- Doesn't provide MAC addresses
- Generally has higher latency than ARP scanning

Example output:
```
Starting Nmap 7.93 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2023-05-21 14:02 CDT
Nmap scan report for 6.19.100.2
Host is up (0.14s latency).
Nmap done: 256 IP addresses (1 host up) scanned in 19.03 seconds
```

## Usage

For either script:
1. Make the script executable:
   ```bash
   chmod +x script_name.sh
   ```

2. Run the script with a subnet as an argument:
   ```bash
   ./script_name.sh 192.168.1.0/24
   ```

## Choosing Between Methods

- Use ARP scanning when:
  - You're scanning your local network
  - You need MAC address information
  - You want the fastest possible scanning speed
  - Network overhead is a concern

- Use ICMP Echo scanning when:
  - You're scanning across network segments
  - You need to discover hosts beyond your local subnet
  - You want a more universally compatible method
  - MAC address information isn't necessary

## Prerequisites

- Nmap must be installed on your system
- Scripts must be run with sufficient privileges (root or sudo)
- For ARP scanning: Must be on the same subnet as target hosts to see MAC addresses
- For ICMP Echo scanning: Target network must allow ICMP traffic

## Repository Structure

- GitHub repository: `holbertonschool-cyber_security`
- Directory: `network_security/0x04_nmap_live_hosts_discovery`
- Files:
  - `0-arp_scan.sh`: Script for ARP scanning
  - `1-icmp_echo_scan.sh`: Script for ICMP Echo scanning
  - `README.md`: This documentation file

Note: These scripts are designed for educational purposes and should be used responsibly and only on networks where you have permission to perform scanning activities.

Commit message:

Add ICMP Address Mask scanning script and update README with usage details

network_security/0x04_nmap_live_hosts_discovery/README.md, after:

You're right - let's build on the existing README.md to create a comprehensive document that covers both scanning techniques. I'll expand the previous README to include both ARP and ICMP Echo scanning methods:

# Host Discovery with Nmap

This project contains bash scripts that demonstrate different techniques for discovering live hosts on a network using Nmap. We implement two fundamental network scanning approaches: ARP scanning and ICMP Echo scanning. Each method operates at different layers of the OSI model and has its own advantages and characteristics.

## Script Overview

### 1. ARP Scanning (0-arp_scan.sh)
```bash
#!/bin/bash
sudo nmap -sn -PR $1
```

The ARP scanning script uses these flags:
- `-sn`: Disables port scanning, focusing only on host discovery
- `-PR`: Specifies ARP scan mode, sending ARP requests to discover hosts
- `$1`: Represents the subnet argument provided when running the script

### 2. ICMP Echo Scanning (1-icmp_echo_scan.sh)
```bash
#!/bin/bash
sudo nmap -sn -PE $1
```

The ICMP Echo scanning script uses these flags:
- `-sn`: Disables port scanning, focusing only on host discovery
- `-PE`: Enables ICMP Echo scanning mode
- `$1`: Represents the subnet argument provided when running the script

### 3. ICMP Address Mask Scanning (3-icmp_address_mask_scan.sh)
```bash
#!/bin/bash
sudo nmap -sn -PM $1
```
The ICMP Address Mask scanning script uses these flags:
- `-sn`: Disables port scanning, focusing only on host discovery
- `-PM`: Enables ICMP Address Mask scanning mode
- `$1`: Represents the subnet argument provided when running the script

## Understanding the Scanning Methods

### ARP Scanning
ARP scanning operates at Layer 2 (Data Link Layer) of the OSI model. When the script runs, it sends ARP requests to all potential hosts in the specified subnet. This method:
- Is very efficient for local network scanning
- Can reveal MAC addresses of responding hosts (but only within the same subnet)
- Has minimal network overhead
- Is limited to local network segments

Example output:
```
Starting Nmap 7.93 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2023-05-22 05:02 CDT
Nmap scan report for 192.168.65.1
Host is up (0.00064s latency).
MAC Address: C6:91:0C:4B:4E:64 (Unknown)
Nmap scan report for 192.168.65.2
Host is up.
Nmap done: 256 IP addresses (2 hosts up) scanned in 2.03 seconds
```

### ICMP Echo Scanning
ICMP Echo scanning operates at Layer 3 (Network Layer) of the OSI model. This method:
- Works across network segments
- Is similar to the traditional `ping` command but more efficient
- Can be blocked by firewalls or host configurations
- Doesn't provide MAC addresses
- Generally has higher latency than ARP scanning

Example output:
```
Starting Nmap 7.93 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2023-05-21 14:02 CDT
Nmap scan report for 6.19.100.2
Host is up (0.14s latency).
Nmap done: 256 IP addresses (1 host up) scanned in 19.03 seconds
```

### ICMP Address Mask Scanning
ICMP Address Mask scanning operates at Layer 3 (Network Layer) of the OSI model, but uses a different type of ICMP message compared to Echo scanning. This method:
- Uses ICMP Address Mask Request packets (Type 17) instead of Echo requests
- Expects ICMP Address Mask Reply packets (Type 18) from live hosts
- Is less commonly used than Echo scanning, which can make it useful for evading some security measures
- May receive fewer responses than Echo scanning as many systems are not configured to respond to Address Mask requests
- Can work across network segments like Echo scanning

Example output:
```
Starting Nmap 7.93 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2023-05-10 15:15 CDT
Nmap done: 254 IP address (0 hosts up) scanned in 53.01 seconds
```

## Usage

For either script:
1. Make the script executable:
   ```bash
   chmod +x script_name.sh
   ```

2. Run the script with a subnet as an argument:
   ```bash
   ./script_name.sh 192.168.1.0/24
   ```

## Choosing Between Methods

- Use ARP scanning when:
  - You're scanning your local network
  - You need MAC address information
  - You want the fastest possible scanning speed
  - Network overhead is a concern

- Use ICMP Echo scanning when:
  - You're scanning across network segments
  - You need to discover hosts beyond your local subnet
  - You want a more universally compatible method
  - MAC address information isn't necessary

- Use ICMP Address Mask scanning when:
  - You want to try an alternative to Echo scanning
  - Standard ICMP Echo requests are being blocked
  - You're testing how systems respond to different types of ICMP messages
  - You need to perform host discovery across network segments

## Prerequisites

- Nmap must be installed on your system
- Scripts must be run with sufficient privileges (root or sudo)
- For ARP scanning: Must be on the same subnet as target hosts to see MAC addresses
- For ICMP Echo scanning: Target network must allow ICMP traffic

## Repository Structure

- GitHub repository: `holbertonschool-cyber_security`
- Directory: `network_security/0x04_nmap_live_hosts_discovery`
- Files:
  - `0-arp_scan.sh`: Script for ARP scanning
  - `1-icmp_echo_scan.sh`: Script for ICMP Echo scanning
  - `README.md`: This documentation file

Note: These scripts are designed for educational purposes and should be used responsibly and only on networks where you have permission to perform scanning activities.
